---
date: 2017-11-17T10:24:16-04:00
title: Kanteron Systems, ACR, and Google Cloud to present medical imaging and genomic data integration at RSNA 2017
tags: ["blog", "awards", "events"]
image: "https://www.rsna.org/uploadedImages/RSNA/Content/Annual_Meeting/2017/Exhibitor_Assets/RSNA-2017-Logo-with-Dates.png"
comments: true     # set false to hide Disqus comments
share: true        # set false to share buttons
thumbnailImagePosition: right
thumbnailImage: https://www.rsna.org/uploadedImages/RSNA/Content/Annual_Meeting/2017/Exhibitor_Assets/RSNA-2017-Logo-with-Dates.png
coverImage: #https://www.rsna.org/uploadedImages/RSNA/Content/Annual_Meeting/2017/Exhibitor_Assets/RSNA-2017-Logo-with-Dates.png
metaAlignment: center
coverMeta: out
---

Kanteron Systems to Demonstrate the Latest Technology in Medical Imaging and Clinical Genomics with Google Cloud Platform and ACR during RSNA 2017

<!--more-->

VALENCIA—(SPAIN)--Kanteron Systems, a pioneer in Precision Medicine clinical data integration, today announced it will participate in the annual Radiological Society of North America's meeting (RSNA 2017) with its technology partner Google Cloud Platform.

RSNA takes place between November 26-30 at Chicago's McCormick Place. Google Cloud Platform's booth (number 8161)<sup>[1](#footnote1)</sup> will be located in the Machine Learning Showcase area. Google has selected 8 partners to showcase its solutions in its booth, all deeply integrated with Google Cloud Platform:

- Kanteron Systems (Spain)
- Imagia (Canada)
- Zebra Medical Vision (Israel)
- lifeiMAGE (USA)
- Dicom Systems (USA)
- Client Outlook (Canada)
- Ambra Health (USA)
- Nautilus Medical (USA)

Besides demos running during all opening hours of the show, and visible at Google's booth main video screens, Kanteron Systems will also present its solutions during a special corporate symposium held by Google: “Cloud Computing and Machine Learning for Next-Gen Diagnostic Imaging Platform”. The symposium will take place Tuesday, November 28th, 1:30pm – 2:15pm, in room S105D followed by an expert panel (2:15pm– 3:00pm).

The highlight of the show will be the premier hands-on demonstration of an unprecedented collaboration in the industry. Led by the American College of Radiology (ACR), Google Cloud Platform and Kanteron Systems, in this collaboration the ACR Image and Information Exchange will provide de-identification and cross referencing of data, aggregating it through Dicom Systems with DICOM and non-DICOM into Kanteron's Platform who will provide access to storage, visualization and collaboration for mixed content Rad/Path/Genomics. ACRassist and Google will then leverage Kanteron's Platform to provide search and algorithm training and reporting using assist.

This collaboration enables Healthcare Delivery Organizations (HDOs) and patients to benefit from integration of medical imaging (RIS-PACS), digital pathology, clinical genomics, pharmacogenomics, and biosensor data in a pay-as-you-go model that eliminates the need for the procurement and maintenance of costly infrastructure, enabling Precision Medicine at the point of care.

“The tremendous potential of the combination of Kanteron Systems’ clinical and imaging data handling capabilities with Google’s Artificial Intelligence and Cloud offerings will be unveiled at RSNA,” said Jorge Cortell, Founder & CEO of Kanteron Systems “with a clear focus: helping clinicians deliver the best care.” 

Tweet this: @kanteron @RadiologyACR and @Google_Cloud Platform to Demonstrate the Latest Technology in Medical #Imaging and Clinical #Genomics at @RSNA #RSNA17 #RSNA2017

Designed to interoperate with existing clinical enterprise systems (PACS, RIS, EMR, LIMS, etc), Kanteron Systems solution automates the provisioning and management of a complete Precision Medicine Platform that guarantees high availability in multiple clouds, all while reducing license footprint and related infrastructure costs.



*About Kanteron Systems*

Kanteron Systems is a privately held Healthcare IT company founded in 2005 that helps healthcare providers manage imaging and genomic data effectively for precision medicine applications at the point of care.

Kanteron Systems' pioneering solutions have already been deployed over 500 times in 12 countries, at some of the world's largest healthcare networks like the American College of Radiology in the USA, the NHS in the UK, Seguridad Social in Spain, ISSSTE in Mexico, or EsSalud in Peru. Learn more about us: [www.kanteron.com](https://www.kanteron.com).


Kanteron Systems is a trademark owned by Kanteron Systems. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

Contacts

John Memarian, President & CCO
Kanteron Systems
jmemarian@kanteron.com
----

<a name="footnote1">1</a>: http://www.expocad.com/host/fx/rsna/rsna17/exfx.html?zoomto=8161#floorplan

----

  