---
id: 1320
title: Kanteron Systems introduces the first Translational PACS-VNA in the world at RSNA 2013
date: 2013-11-28T00:12:16+00:00
author: kanteron
layout: post
guid: https://www.kanteron.com/blog/?p=1320
permalink: /blog/2013/11/28/kanteron-systems-introduces-the-first-translational-pacs-in-the-world-at-rsna-2013/
image: /wp-content/uploads/2013/11/Translational.jpg
categories:
  - Events
  - HealthCare
  - Kanteron
  - Kanteron News
  - Products
  - Tradeshows
---
PRESS RELEASE **First Translational Medical Imaging System in the World** _New York, NY, USA, November 27, 2013_

> **Kanteron Systems will launch the world‘s first Translational Medical Imaging System (“TMIS”) at the Radiology Society of North America (“RSNA”) annual meeting in Chicago, December 1-5, 2013. TMIS is a fully integrated solution for radiology, genetic and pathology workflows that could change the way medicine is practiced.**

Translational research is an emerging field that aims to provide a better understanding of the molecular basis of disease, which in turn will inform clinical practice and ultimately improve human health. Kanteron Systems‘ award-winning, cutting-edge medical imaging and hospital information solution TMIS unifies for the first time molecular imaging (genomes, proteins and metabolic), functional imaging (physiology), and anatomical imaging (anatomy). Graphs, and workflows along with their increasingly voluminous amounts of metadata, coming together to produce the most complete and unified visualization, enabling researchers and clinicians to reach precise diagnostics with unparalleled ease and speed. “Our Translational Medical Imaging System is a medical break-through with deep implications in how disease is viewed and treated, making precise diagnostics finally available to any clinician and researcher in the world.” stated Jorge Cortell, Chief Executive Officer of Kanteron Systems. “Images, reports, big data analytics can now be shared and accessed worldwide in real time, for research, diagnostic, teaching, remote second opinions or virtual tumor boards, all in a single platform, in a unified view. We believe such a deep-impact innovation will benefit millions of people, so we have decided not to patent it. Instead, we are giving our customers unrestricted access to the open code.” TMIS is fully interoperable with PACS-Vendor Neutral Archive, EHR, RIS, and LIS via standards-compliant protocols and formats (like DICOM and HL7). TMIS also includes a zero-footprint remote single interface for access to the PACS, VNA, RIS, and WorkList Server, and a radiology, genetics and Digital Pathology image viewer that includes zoom, pan, measure, annotate, and report tools functions. Kanteron Systems has built-in external devices integration into TMIS: all digital radiology modalities, all digital pathology scanners and most genome sequencers are already compatible with TMIS out of the box. DigiPath, Inc. (OTCBB: DIGP) will even demonstrate DigiPath’s PathScope™ pathology scanners connectivity with TMIS live at RSNA 2013. “We have been working closely with Gartner on helping CIOs and Medical Image leaders provide solutions that allow intaking, viewing and sharing medical images to overcome workflow and compliance challenges. Along with our global partner IBM and their advanced technologies like big data analytics and Watson‘s natural language artificial intelligence, we believe we can change how medicine is practiced worldwide” explains Jorge Cortell, Chief Executive Officer of Kanteron Systems. “Some of the largest Healthcare Delivery Organizations and National Healthcare Networks in the world already greatly benefit from the use our solutions. Now it‘s the time for the rest of the world to find out how it can work for them.” Stop by RSNA 2013 Booth # B7510 to see the benefits of TMIS. **About Kanteron Systems** Kanteron Systems is a leading open-source software company founded in 2005, specializing in medical imaging. Our award-winning Translational PACS enables full-resolution real-time telepathology in standard DICOM image format (an industry first), as well as genetic and radiology information and imaging storage and workflow management, and healthcare data integration. With offices in New York (USA), Lima (Peru), and Valencia (Spain), Kanteron Systems provides advanced medical imaging software solutions to some of the largest healthcare networks in the world (like the NHS in the UK, ISSSTE in Mexico, and EsSalud in Peru). For more information please visit: https://www.kanteron.com or send an email to info@kanteron.com. Kanteron Systems Media Relations 347-458-9329 media@kanteron.com